well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so today we are going to talk
about accepted terminology slang a
philosophical concept pirates and a
whole bunch of other stuff
all in an attempt to pin down what we
should call those guys down south the
philosophical concept we're going to
discuss is something we're going to be
revisiting it's something I've talked
about on this channel before but it's
been more than a year and it's worth
talking about again because to be honest
when it comes to base philosophical
ideas that we discuss on this channel
this may be the most important one to me
so I don't mind talking about it again
okay so those guys down south the ones
that got caught in Venezuela are they
contractors or are they mercenaries
what's the difference between a pirate
and a privateer virtually
indistinguishable winner in the field
like in the ocean whenever they engage
in a lot of the same behavior what's the
real difference one has a permission
slip one has a letter of marque a
authorization from a state a government
a ruler it's okay to engage in this
behavior that is normally wrong as long
as you're doing it for me that's the
difference that's the tangible
difference it's the difference in the
terminology take it a step further
what's the difference between a pirate
and a navy when that Navy is engaging in
operations to disrupt opposition
shipping how much early the involvement
of state the involvement of a
governmental ruler that's a st.
Augustine
told a story about Alexander the Great
and the story is that he called a pirate
and he's talking to the pirate and he's
basically like you know what are you
doing you're disrupting trade you're
taking stuff that isn't yours you're a
thief and the Pirates like what are you
doing you're doing all of the exact same
stuff but because I have one boat I'm a
pirate because you have a fleet you're
an emperor it goes to the idea that
might makes right more importantly it
goes to the idea that legality is
morality and it's not the two things
aren't the same because more than likely
the mighty are the ones that wrote the
rules they wrote the laws they wrote
them to benefit themselves they can
justify their own behavior that way
legality and morality are not the same
thing and a permission slip doesn't
really change the the moral implications
of what's happening it just changes the
terminology now the discussion about
these guys down there it really boils
down to who you believe the legitimate
government is down there truly what it
boils down to because as far as we can
prove it was all in-house you know it
was contracted by Venezuelans an action
that occurred in Venezuela now if you
believe that Maduro
is the legitimate ruler well then
they're mercenaries if you believe the
opposition party is the legitimate ruler
well then they're contractors the
actions would be the same now
I'm in the u.s. the United States
doesn't recognize Maduro as the
legitimate guy so here they're probably
going to be viewed as contractors now
one of the reason I would suggest that
this terminology be taken back because
there's also slang terminology within
that industry just to keep it simple if
a contractor ever refers to somebody as
a mercenary they're a horrible human
being it's really what it means it's it
doesn't have anything to do with any of
the other stuff but I would suggest that
we settle on terminology either they are
all contractors or they are all
mercenaries if you want to say that
anybody who picks up a gun for money is
a mercenary cool fine whatever that that
would be more beneficial to me because
if we allow it to be politicized then
we're playing into the idea that the
government can authorize an activity
that would normally be seen as something
that's immoral and make it okay just by
giving a permission slip
and I think that's a bad idea because it
feeds into the idea that legality is
morality and that's that's something
that we're having a lot of problems
whether right now in the United States
we have trouble understanding that those
aren't the same thing now for those who
would say right now because they are
supporters of Maduro these guys are
mercenaries and you want to use that
term to politicize it I would ask if you
think Maduro security is close in
security if they're mercenaries or the
consultants that trained their
intelligence guys who caught these guys
who infiltrated the movement because
they're all contractors or mercenaries
whatever you want to call them they work
for a Waggoner company out of Russia
this industry has changed a lot it's
become very corporatized
it is a facet of modern international
relations probably not a good thing but
that's where we're at if we want to
kertel it it would be a good idea to not
allow it to be politicized in the sense
of good guys or contractors and bad guys
or mercenaries if you want to use the
legal thing about whether or not to have
a permission slip fond but if you don't
care about that
you need to use the same term for both I
I don't particularly care which term it
is but if the permission slip doesn't
change your opinion of the action you
should decide on one and apply it across
the board
otherwise you're reinforcing the idea
that the government can legitimize a
behavior that you would normally view as
immoral
by simply saying it's okay anyway it's
just the fault y'all have a good night